EXERCISES.

1. (gg ‡,ii)

(1) During (abl.) the games at Athens an elderly man
entered the theatre. (2) Ν one of those present, except the
envoys from Sparta (adj), who sat in reserved scats, made
room for him to sit down. (3) Their action met with lmiver-
sal applause. (4) It is one thing to know what is right,
another to do it. (5) It is a great relies to escape from the
bondage of town-life into the country (tr. from the town, as
from chains). (6) It is right that old men should sometimes
condescend to the sports of youth.

11. (§§ fii,1v)

(l) Tradition says that Biton was the son of a priestess. (2)
He took off his coat and harnessed himself to the collar. (3)
I promise to give you the best horses Ι have. (4) If the horses
had not been late, we should have reached the temple in time.
(5) Your prospecta of the consulship seem remote (cf. iv. 1).
(6) When do you intend to stand for the praetorship‘.²

ΙΙΙ. (ἐξ v„ vr)

(1) He acted disloyally in bringing a charge against so
excellent a man (iV. 9). (2) Sophocles was brought to trial
for (quod) neglecting the interests of his family. (3) Did
the court, he asked, think that the work of a dotard‘e (4)
Themistocles was a man of remarkable talent, it is true, but
of low morality. (5) It is not given—to-everyone to remember
what he is taught. (6) Caesar’s murderers never forgot the

l5th of March.
IV. (ἓὲ vii„ viii.)

(1) Such was their mutual affection that one was ready to
die for the other. (2) Damon went bail for the punctual re-

78

