90

aetas, atis, f. age. life.

affero, aistuli, allatum, afferre.
bring to, propose.

afficio, feei, fectum, 3, inflict
UPOU.

affingo, inxi, ictum, 3, iuvent be-
sides.

affirmo, 1, assei-t.

affligo, xi, ctum, 3: (part.) shab-
tered, desperate.

ager, gri, m. land.

aggredior, gressus, 3, attaok.

agito, 1, hunt, chase.

ago, egi, actum, 3, do, perform,
carry out, pass.

agrestis. e, rude, wild.

aio (defective), say.

alacer, oris, cre. cheerful.

albus, a, um, white.

aliquanto, adv. somewhat.

aliqui, qua, quod, adj. some.

aliquis, quid, pron. some one,
something.

aliquot, several.

itlius, a. um, other. different.

alter, a, um, the one, the other
(of two), second.

amans, ntis (pen-L), loving, fond.

ambiguus, a, um, of doubt-ful
meaning.

ambulo, 1, walk.

fimenS, entis, mad, senseless.

amicitia, ae, f. friendship.

amiculum, i, n. cloak.

amlcus, i, m. friend, adj. friendly.

amitto, isi, issum, 3, lose.

immo, l, love.

amphibolia, ae, f. ambiguity.

ample, adv. abundantly.

amplius, adv. more.

amplus, a, um, splendid, hand-
some.

an, con j. or, whether.

ancilla, ae, f. maid-servant,

anguis, is, m. and f. snake.

angustiae, arum, f. plu. narrow
passage.

animadverto, ti, sum, 3, notice,
observe.

STORIES FROM CICERO.

'animus‚ i, m. mind, courage,

.. spu-it.

Anio, enis, m. the Anio, a tribu-
tary of the Tiber.

annales, ium, m. recorda.

anniversarius, a„ um, yearly.

annuo, ui, atum, 3, nod assent.

annus, i, m. year.

ante, prop. and adv. before; ante·
quam, conj. before.

antea, adv. before.

angelucanus, a, um, before day-
‘reah

antepono, posui, positum, 3,
prefer.

Antiphon, ontis, m. Antiphon, an
interpreter of dreams.

antiquus a, um, old.

Antt'mianus, follower of Antony.

anulus, i, m. ring.

aperio, erui, ertum, 4, open.

Apollo, inis, m. Apollo.

appharatus, fis, m. splendour,
s ow.

appareo. ui, itum, 2, appear.

apparo, 1, prepare, arrange.

appello, puli, pulsum, 3, bring
to land, put in.

appello, l, call upon, appeal to.

applico, ui, itum (or avi, atum),
1, put close, join to.

appono, 3, set before.

approbo, 1, approve.

apricor, 1, sun one’s sels.

athS‚ a, um, attaehed to, suit-
able.

apud, prop. at, before, at the house
or court of (Fr. ‘chez ¹), among,
in the pages of.

aquatio, om's, f. a place to get
water from.

aquila, ae, f. eagle, standard.

arbiter, tri, m. witness.

arbitror, 1, think, judge.

arbor, bris, f. tree.

arbustum, i, n. plantation, or-
chard.

arca, ae, f. box.

Arcas, fidis, Arcadian.

